360 g bread flour
2.25 g instant yeast
255 g water
22.5 mL olive oil
6 g kosher salt
1 can whole San Marzano tomatoes (pureed) 
Low moisture mozzarella cheese (shredded or torn)
Pepperoni
Freshly grated parmesan cheese

In a bowl, combine 360 grams of bread flour and 2.25 grams of instant yeast and whisk to disperse. 

Add 255 grams of water for a dough with a hydration of 70%. 
Add 22.5 milliliters of olive oil to add flavor and shorten the gluten strands. Mix to combine.

Then, add 6 grams of kosher salt and continue mixing until no dry spots remain. Use the lift and fold technique to develop the gluten. 

Let the dough rest in and oiled container overnight in the refrigerator. 

Generously lubricate a 12 inch cast iron skillet with 2-4 tablespoons of olive oil. 

Carefully dump the chilled ball of dough inside of the skillet. Flip the dough once to coat it with oil and gently press it out to fill the bottom of the pan. 

Depending on how cold your dough is, you may experience some resistance. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 15 minutes before trying again. 

Once it is shaped, it should be out of the refrigerator for about an hour and a half before topping and baking.

To begin, preheat a pizza stone in the oven at 550°F for at least an hour, ensuring that the bottom of the pizza gets blasted with enough heat to make it crisp. 

Roughly purée 1 can of whole San Marzano tomatoes and add a generous pinch of kosher salt along with shredded or torn pieces of fresh mozzarella. 

Top off the pizza with a generous layer of the San Marzano tomato purée and a thick layer of low moisture mozzarella cheese, making sure to spread it all the way out to the edges for a cheesy crunch on the outside. 

Add some thick slices of pepperoni and top everything off with some freshly grated parmesan cheese.

Place the pizza into the oven for anywhere from 10-15 minutes, being rotated once halfway through. 

After baking, let the pizza rest for at least 10 minutes to absorb the oil. 

If the bottom texture is not crunchy enough, place it in the cast iron skillet on the stovetop over medium heat for 2-3 minutes until the bottom is crisp. 

Slice and serve as desired. 

<3 Babish
