Ingredients:

470 g bread flour

25 g sugar

1 ½ g yeast

285 g ice water

9 g kosher salt

15 mL olive oil

Tomato sauce (cooked)

Garlic 

Basil

Low moisture mozzarella cheese (shredded or torn)


Directions:

Combine 470 grams of bread flour, 25 grams of  sugar, and 1 ½ grams of yeast in mixer bowl. 

Mix together with a wooden or silicone spoon to just combine everything. 

Place the bowl into stand mixer with a dough-hook

Add 285 grams of ice-cold water to the bowl and continue working the dough until a ball of dough forms. This should give you a dough with a hydration of about 60%. 

Let the dough rest for about 15 minutes

Add 9 grams of kosher salt and 15 milliliters of olive oil.  Restart the stand mixer and knead the dough for 5 minutes or until it cohesively comes together in a very soft and smooth mass. 

Turn off the mixer and remove the bowl and dough hook.

Form the dough into a taut ball and place it into an oiled container to proof in the fridge overnight to improve the dough’s texture and flavor. 

Divide the chilled dough in half and stretch it into two taut balls. Place the balls of dough on a lightly floured rimmed baking sheet or proofing box for about 2 hours at room temperature or until it is light and easy to work with. 

Flour both your work surface and the dough itself and pat the dough out as wide as possible with your fingers. Leave a very small rim around the outside that will eventually become the crust. 

Begin gently and slowly stretching the dough by passing it knuckle over knuckle until it is as thin as you can get it, which in this case, is about 14-16 inches wide. Place the stretched out dough on a generously floured pizza peel.

Add a layer of a cooked tomato sauce with garlic and basil as well as lots of shredded low moisture mozzarella cheese.

Place the pizza in the oven at 700°F for 5-7 minutes. Rotate the pizza often and make sure to pop any air bubbles before taking it out of the oven once the exterior is deeply browned and the cheese is melted and golden brown. 

Let the pizza rest for 5 minutes before slicing and serving. 

<3 Binging with Babish
