Equipment

Blender

Flour strainer/sifter that is not used for flour

Large jar for fermentation

Pot large enough for quantity of pepper and fluids involved.

Saran/glad wrap

Sterile swing top bottle

Mason jar with lid (if you want to keep pulp)

A metal kitchen funnel that fits in the bottle

Large pot that can fit the funnel, jar and bottle and enough water to cover them.

Tongs

Rubber gloves if you're handing extremely hot peppers.



Ingredients

1.5 lbs (680 grams) of peppers

1 whole bulb of garlic

1.5 cup of apple cider vinegar

4 table spoons of light brown sugar

1 tablespoon of salt



Directions

Blend peppers with garlic, salt and brown sugar with barely enough water until consistency can no longer be reduced.

Pour into large jar, cover with saran wrap and sore in cool dark place (not the fridge too cold) for fermentation. Check daily and remove any fuzzy growth on the surface, stir, cover and store.

After about 5-7 days, pour back into blender, add apple cider vinegar and blend again. Pour through something like a flour strainer or sifter, stirring to force liquid though into a pot. Pour water over the pulp while stirring to liberate as much sauce from the pulp as possible through the strainer. Bring contents to a boil then simmer until the sauce reduces to a consistency you're satisfied with. I typically go for a thick as I can before it starts to stick to the bottom of the pan.

You can use whatever pulp is left over if you want. Bring to boil with a tablespoon of vinegar and just enough water. Reduce but don't burn.



Canning procedure

Put bottle, jar and funnel into large pot. Cover with water and bring to a boil.

Using tongs remove swing top bottle from pot and drain water. Remove the funnel and place in bottle. Pour sauce into bottle. Seal.

Remove jam jar and empty of water. Scrape pulp into it. Tighten lid. I find the pulp to be excellent for cooking. It's not as hot as the sauce. Sauce should keep for a few months, but consume quickly after opening.

Recipie should work the same for all spicy pepper types like Chili, Serrano, Habanero, Carolina Reaper etc. Experiment with different pepper combinations to find a flavor you like best.



<3 Ray
