• 115g blanched almonds or almond flour, or whatever nut you like
• 230g powdered sugar*
• 144g egg whites , temperature and age not important!
• 72g sugar
• 2 tsp vanilla extract
• 2g kosher salt
• Some kind of filling

Preheat the oven to 300° and have ready a large (18”) pastry bag, fitted with a plain tip. If you haven’t wrangled a pastry bag into submission before (or if you have and found it frustrating), these 12 tips for using a pastry bag will make the process mess and stress free; take the time to read them before you get started and you’ll do great!

You’ll also need two parchment lined sheet pans ready too.

I am hopelessly impatient and given to rushing, even when I know better. So to prevent my macarons from growing ever larger as I pipe, I use a 1 1/2” cookie cutter to trace out guide-circles (about an inch apart) and then I flip the parchment paper over, ink side down.

If you use almond flour, you lucky dog, simply sift it with the powdered sugar and set aside. If a significant portion won’t go through your sifter, however, you’ll need to grind them up until they do.

In that case, or if you’re using whole nuts, bust out your food processor. Process the almonds and powdered sugar for about a minute. Take out the mixture and sift it, reserving whatever bits don’t pass through the sieve. Add these bits back to the food processor and run the machine for another minute. Sift again. You should have about 2 Tbsp of slightly chunkier almond bits, but hakuna matata. Just add those into the dry mix.

In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the egg whites, sugar, vanilla bean (not the extract), and salt and turn the mixer to medium (4 on a Kitchen Aid). Whip for 3 minutes. They will not seem especially foamy at that point.

Increase the speed to medium-high (7 on a Kitchen Aid) and whip another 3 minutes, then crank the speed to 8 for go another 3 minutes.

At that point, turn the mixer off and add in any extracts/flavor/color and whip for a final minute on the highest speed, just to show it who’s boss (and to evenly distribute the color/flavor). I highly recommend not adding any flavor or color if it’s your first time, or if you’re wanting to learn about macarons. Additives make learning trickier. If you’re not here to learn, just to eat, then carry on!

At the end of this minute, you should have a very stiff, dry meringue. (Check out this photo if you’d like to see a picture of how your meringue should look.) When you remove the whisk attachment, there will be a big clump of meringue in the center, just knock the whisk against the bowl to free it. If the meringue has not become stiff enough to clump inside the whisk, continue beating for another minute, or until it does so.

Now dump in the dry ingredients all at once and fold them in with a rubber spatula. Use both a folding motion (to incorporate the dry ingredients) and a rubbing/smearing motion, to deflate the meringue against the side of the bowl.

First timers: the dry ingredients/meringue will look hopelessly incompatible at first. After about 25 turns (or folds or however you want to call “a single stroke of mixing”) the mixture will still have a quite lumpy and stiff texture. Another 15 strokes will see you to “just about right.” Keep in mind that macaronage is about deflating the whites, so don’t feel like you have to treat them oh-so-carefully. You want to knock the air out of them.

Undermixed macaron batter: quite stiff. If you spoon some out and drop it back into the mix, it will just sit there and never incorporate. Do this test before bagging your batter and save yourself the trouble of baking of undermixed macarons!

Overmixed macaron batter: has a runny, pancake batter-like texture. It will ooze continuously, making it impossible to pipe into pretty circles. Um, try not to reach that point.

You can evaluate your batter one stroke at a time, no rush.

Essentially, the macaron batter needs enough thickness that it will mound up on itself, but enough fluidity that after 20 seconds, it will melt back down. I’ve heard people describe this consistency as lava-like, or molten, and that’s pretty apt.

Transfer about half the batter to a piping bag. (When your bag is too full, the pressure causes the batter to rush out in a way that’s difficult to control, making for sloppy macarons.)

Pipe the batter into the pre-traced circles on the baking sheet. Stop piping just shy of the borders of the circle, as the batter will continue to spread just a bit.

After piping your macarons, take hold of the sheet pan and hit it hard against your counter. Rotate the pan ninety degrees and rap two more times. This will dislodge any large air bubbles that might cause your macarons to crack

Bake for about 18 minutes, or until you can cleanly peel the parchment paper away from a macaron. If, when you try to pick up a macaron, the top comes off in your hand, it’s not done.

Once the macarons have baked, cool thoroughly on the pans, before peeling the cooled macarons from the parchment. Use a metal spatula if necessary.

Fill a pastry bag fitted with the buttercream of your choice and pipe a quarter sized mound of buttercream into half of the shells, then sandwich them with their naked halves.

Macarons, against all pastry traditions, actually get better with age. The shells soften and become more chewy, mingling with the flavor of the buttercream too. So, while of course you can eat them right away, don’t hesitate to store them refrigerated for up to a week. If at all possible, set them out at room temperature for a few hours before consuming, because cold buttercream is kinda gross.

VARIATIONS
Caramel: after making the buttercream, whip in 16 ounces of room temperature caramel, or more to taste.

Cranberry: after making the buttercream, drizzle in up to 8 ounces of room temperature Cranberry Syrup. Unlike the caramel variation, you can’t keep adding Cranberry Syrup to taste, as too much will cause the buttercream to break.

Cream Cheese: reduce the butter to 16 ounces, and replace the rest with 16 ounces cream cheese, softened to room temperature. After finishing the buttercream, whip in 1 ounce lemon juice to reinforce the cream cheese tang.

Green Tea: after finishing the buttercream, whip in 2 Tablespoons matcha powder, or more to taste. Matcha has a naturally bitter flavor, so start small and add the rest a little at a time until it’s just to your liking.

For a phenomenal on-line tea source visit Essencha. They sell a mind blowing matcha sawa, which is what I use for all my matcha recipes.

Anyone in the Lexington area can buy matcha at Dong Yang Market off Clay’s Mill. Yes, I know it’s a Korean market, but they sell a good quality Japanese brand in a small container.

Milk Chocolate: milk chocolate doesn’t pack enough punch to stand up to all the sugar and butter in this recipe, so you’ll need a little dark chocolate for the flavor to shine through.

While whipping the meringue, melt 8 ounces milk chocolate and 5 ounces dark chocolate in the microwave, stirring with a spatula every 30 seconds to prevent scorching. Once the meringue has cooled and you’ve added all the butter, turn the speed down to low and add the melted chocolate all at once. Move quickly, as the melted chocolate can form chips against the side of the bowl. Increase the speed to to medium-high and whip until homogenous.

Spiced Chocolate: especially nice with Chai Cocoa Cupcakes. Follow the Milk Chocolate variation, using all dark chocolate instead. After finishing the buttercream, whip in 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, or more to taste.

Peanut Butter: for this variation, omit the salt in the recipe. Commercial peanut butters are salted, making additional salt unnecessary. After whipping in the butter, you can add as much or as little creamy peanut butter as you like, tinkering until the taste is right for you. This is obscene, but I’ve added up to 32 ounces of peanut butter….obviously that increases the yield by several cups, but there are worse problems to have.
